.TH encap_install 3 "Oct 2002" "University of Illinois" "C Library Calls"
.SH NAME
encap_install, encap_remove, encap_check \- perform operations on Encap packages
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <encap.h>
.P
.BI "typedef int (*" encap_decision_func_t ")(ENCAP *" encap ","
.BI "encap_source_info_t *" srcinfo ", encap_target_info_t *" tgtinfo ");"

.BI "int encap_install(ENCAP *" encap ", encap_decision_func_t " decision_func ");"

.BI "int encap_remove(ENCAP *" encap ", encap_decision_func_t " decision_func ");"

.BI "int encap_check(ENCAP *" encap ", encap_decision_func_t " decision_func ");"
.SH VERSION
This man page documents version 2.3 of \fBlibencap\fP.
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fBencap_install\fP(), \fBencap_remove\fP(), and \fBencap_check\fP()
functions can be used to install, remove, or check the status of the
package associated with \fIencap\fP.  If the \fIdecision_func\fP argument
is not \fINULL\fP, the function it points to is called to evaluate the link
and override \fIlibencap\fP's decision about how to handle it.  This allows
the calling application to have more fine-grained control over Encap
processing.

The \fIdecision_func\fP function is called for each file which is processed.
The \fIencap\fP argument is the \fBENCAP\fP handle associated with the
package being processed.  The \fIsrcinfo\fP structure is the description
of the Encap source file which is returned by \fBencap_check_source\fP(3).
The \fItgtinfo\fP structure is the description of the Encap target link
which is returned by \fBencap_check_target\fP(3).

The \fIdecision_func\fP function must return one of the following values to
tell \fIlibencap\fP how to proceed:
.TP
.B R_RETURN
Fatal error.  Stop processing the Encap and return immediately.
.TP
.B R_ERR
Non-fatal error.  Processing continues with the next file in the Encap
package.  (Note that if \fBSRC_REQUIRED\fP is set in \fIsrcinfo->src_flags\fP,
a fatal error will result.  This case is handled the same as if
\fIdecision_func\fP() had returned \fBR_RETURN\fP.)
.TP
.B R_FILEOK
File should be processed normally.
.TP
.B R_SKIP
Do not process this file.  No error is recorded, and Processing continues
with the next file in the Encap package.
.SH RETURN VALUES
The \fBencap_install\fP(), \fBencap_remove\fP(), and \fBencap_check\fP() 
functions each return one of the following values:
.TP
.B ENCAP_STATUS_NOOP
No action was needed.
.TP
.B ENCAP_STATUS_SUCCESS
Operation successful.
.TP
.B ENCAP_STATUS_PARTIAL
Operation partially successful.  Some files were processed successfully, but
at least one error was encountered.
.TP
.B ENCAP_STATUS_FAILED
Operation failed.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR encap_open (3),
.BR encap_check_source (3),
.BR encap_check_target (3)
