.TH encap_check_target 3 "Oct 2002" "University of Illinois" "C Library Calls"
.SH NAME
encap_check_target, encap_check_source \- Encap file verification routines
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <encap.h>
.P
.BI "int encap_check_target(char *" encap_source ", char *" tgt_path ","
.BI "encap_target_info_t *" tgtinfo ");"

.BI "int encap_check_source(ENCAP *" encap ", char *" dir ","
.BI "char *" file ", encap_source_info_t *" srcinfo ");"
.SH VERSION
This man page documents version 2.3 of \fBlibencap\fP.
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fBencap_check_target\fP() function checks the status of the target file
\fItgt_path\fP and sets the fields of \fItgtinfo\fP to describe it.  The
most important field of \fItgtinfo\fP is the \fItgt_flags\fP field, which
is comprised of zero or more of the following values or'ed together:
.TP
.B TGT_EXISTS
The target file exists.
.TP
.B TGT_ISDIR
The target file is a directory.
.TP
.B TGT_ISLNK
The target file is a symlink.
.TP
.B TGT_DEST_EXISTS
The target link points to an existing file.
.TP
.B TGT_DEST_ISDIR
The target link points to a directory.
.TP
.B TGT_DEST_ENCAP_SRC
The target link points somewhere under the Encap Source directory.
.TP
.B TGT_DEST_PKGDIR_EXISTS
The target link points to an existing package directory.
.PP
If \fBTGT_ISLNK\fP is set in \fItgt_flags\fP, the
\fItgt_link_existing\fP field is set to the path that the link
points to.  If \fBTGT_DEST_ENCAP_SRC\fP is set in \fItgt_flags\fP, the
\fItgt_link_existing_pkg\fP and \fItgt_link_existing_pkgdir_relative\fP
fields are set to point to the package and the path relative to the
package directory which the link points to, respectively.

The \fBencap_check_source\fP() function sets the fields of the \fIsrcinfo\fP
structure to describe the Encap source file whose path is
\fIencap->e_source\fP/\fIencap->e_pkgname\fP/\fIdir\fP/\fIfile\fP.  The
most important field of \fIsrcinfo\fP is the \fIsrc_flags\fP field, which
is comprised of zero or more of the following values or'ed together:
.TP
.B SRC_REQUIRED
The symlink for this file must be created successfully in order for
installation of the package referenced by \fIencap\fP to succeed.
.TP
.B SRC_LINKDIR
The file is a subdirectory, but should be linked directly rather than
recursively linking its contents.
.TP
.B SRC_EXCLUDED
The file matches an exclude entry and should not be processed.
.TP
.B SRC_ISDIR
The file is a directory.
.TP
.B SRC_ISLNK
The file is a symlink.
.SH RETURN VALUES
The \fBencap_check_target\fP() and \fBencap_check_source\fP() functions
return 0 on success, or -1 on failure (and set \fIerrno\fP).
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR encap_open (3)
