.TH mkencap 1 "Oct 2002" "University of Illinois" "Package Management"
.SH NAME
mkencap \- Encap package creation tool
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBmkencap [options] -b [-DUPCBIT] \\
.br
        [-m m4_cmd] [-M m4_outfile] \\
.br
        [-d download_dir] [-F environment_file] \\
.br
        [-O build_tree] [-S src_tree] profile

mkencap [options] \\
.br
        [ -e [-n] [-a "encapinfo_directive ..."] ] \\
.br
        [ -c [-o outfile] ] pkgspec\fP
.SH VERSION
This man page documents version 2.3 of \fBmkencap\fP.
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBmkencap\fP is a tool to help create \fIEncap\fP 2.1 packages.  It can
create package directories, generate \fIencapinfo\fP files, and create
package archives.
.SH MODES
Any combination of these modes may be specified when \fBmkencap\fP is
invoked.  Directory initialization is done first, if selected.  Then,
if the \fIencapinfo\fP file is needed, it is created.  Finally, a tar
archive is created if desired.
.TP
.B -b
Build the package from a profile.  If the \fI-b\fP option is specified,
\fIpackage\fP should be the path to the file containing the package's
profile.  (See \fBPACKAGE PROFILE OPTIONS\fP below for other related
options.)
.TP
.B -e
Create an \fIencapinfo\fP file in the package directory.
(See \fBENCAPINFO OPTIONS\fP below for other related options.)
.TP
.B -c
Create archive.  \fBmkencap\fP will create a (optionally compressed)
tar archive of \fIpackage\fP.  (See \fBARCHIVE CREATION OPTIONS\fP
below for other related options.)
.PP
If none of these options are selected, \fBmkencap\fP will create an
\fIencapinfo\fP file and a tar archive.
.SH GENERAL OPTIONS
These options may be used in combination with any other options:
.TP
.B -E encap_format
Specify the Encap package format version of the new package.  The
default is \fI2.1\fP.
.TP
.B -p platform
Set the package's Encap platform name to \fIplatform\fP.  If this option
is not specified, the platform name is set to that of the host that
\fBmkencap\fP is running on.
.TP
.B -A platform_suffix
Appends \fIplatform_suffix\fP to the package's Encap platform name.
.TP
.B -f
Force \fBmkencap\fP to overwrite an existing \fIencapinfo\fP file.
.TP
.B -q
Quiet mode.  Only error messages are output to stdout.
.TP
.B -s source_dir
Tells \fBmkencap\fP to use \fIsource_dir\fP as the \fIEncap\fP source
directory.  If the source is not specified but the target is,
\fBmkencap\fP will assume the relative path from the target to the
source is \fIencap/\fP.  If neither is specified, \fBmkencap\fP will check the
contents of the \fPENCAP_SOURCE\fP environment variable.  If that is
not set, it will use the default set at compile-time (usually
\fI/usr/local/encap\fP).
.TP
.B -t target_dir
Tells \fBmkencap\fP to use \fItarget_dir\fP as the \fIEncap\fP target
directory.  If the target is not specified but the source is,
\fBmkencap\fP will assume the relative path from the source to the
target is \fI../\fP.  If neither is specified, \fBmkencap\fP will check the
contents of the \fBENCAP_TARGET\fP environment variable.  If that is
not set, it will use the default set at compile-time (usually
\fI/usr/local\fP).
.TP
.B -v
Increase verbosity.  This option can be specified multiple times.
.TP
.B -V
Print \fBmkencap\fP version and compile-time defaults.
.SH PACKAGE PROFILE OPTIONS
These options are only meaningful when processing package profiles (see
\fI-b\fP option above):
.TP
.B -D
Download source distribution if not already present.  The downloaded
file is placed in the common source tree.
.TP
.B -U
Unpack source distribution.
.TP
.B -P
Apply any necessary patches to source distribution.
.TP
.B -C
Configure source distribution.
.TP
.B -B
Build source distribution.
.TP
.B -I
Install source distribution to create an Encap package.
(This usually needs to be done as \fIroot\fP.)
.TP
.B -T
Tidy source distribution.
.PP
If none of the \fI-DUPCBIT\fP options are selected, the default
is \fI-DUPCB\fP.
.TP
.B -m m4_cmd
Use the command \fIm4_cmd\fP to preprocess the package profile.
If the \fI-m\fP option is not specified, \fBmkencap\fP will check the
\fIMKENCAP_M4_COMMAND\fP environment variable.  If that variable is
unset, \fBmkencap\fP will use the string "m4", which means that it will
use the first \fBm4\fP binary available in the \fIPATH\fP.

.B Note:
The preprocessing command must point to GNU \fBm4\fP.  If the
first \fBm4\fP binary in your \fIPATH\fP is not GNU \fBm4\fP, you must
use either the \fIMKENCAP_M4_COMMAND\fP environment variable or the
\fI-m\fP option to specify the path to GNU \fBm4\fP.

This option can be used to simply override which \fBm4\fP binary is
used, as in:

  mkencap -m /usr/local/bin/m4 -b pkgspec.ep

However, it can also be used to add options to be passed to the \fBm4\fP
command, as in:

  mkencap -m "m4 -Dmacro=value" -b pkgspec.ep
.TP
.B -d download_dir
Tells \fBmkencap\fP where to put source files as they are downloaded.
If the \fI-d\fP option is not specified, \fBmkencap\fP will check the
\fIMKENCAP_DOWNLOAD_DIR\fP environment variable.  If that variable is
unset, \fBmkencap\fP will use the default set at compile-time (usually
\fI/usr/local/src\fP).
.TP
.B -F environment_file
Tells \fBmkencap\fP to read environment variable settings from
\fIenvironment_file\fP.  If the \fI-F\fP option is not specified,
\fBmkencap\fP will use the default set at compile-time (usually
\fI/usr/local/etc/mkencap_environment\fP).
.TP
.B -S src_tree
Tells \fBmkencap\fP where the common source tree is located.  For
packages that can be built in a seperate directory from where the source
code is located, the source code will be stored in the common source
tree.  If the \fI-S\fP option is not specified, \fBmkencap\fP will check
the \fIMKENCAP_SRC_TREE\fP environment variable.  If that variable is
unset, \fBmkencap\fP will store the source code in the build tree.
.TP
.B -O build_tree
Tells \fBmkencap\fP where the build tree is located.  The build tree is
used for building packages from source code.  If the \fI-O\fP option is
not specified, \fBmkencap\fP will check the \fIMKENCAP_BUILD_TREE\fP
environment variable.  If that variable is unset, \fBmkencap\fP will
use the default set at compile-time (usually \fI/usr/local/src\fP).

If the build tree path contains the string "%p", it will be replaced
with the platform name.
.TP
.B -M m4_outfile
Tells \fBmkencap\fP to write the output of \fBm4\fP to the file
\fIm4_outfile\fP.  If \fIm4_outfile\fP is "-", the output will be
written to \fIstdout\fP.

This option is useful for debugging problems caused by \fBm4\fP
preprocessing.
.SH ENCAPINFO OPTIONS
These options are only meaningful when creating an \fIencapinfo\fP file
(see \fI-e\fP option above):
.TP
.B -n
Do not add default \fIcontact\fP, \fIdate\fP, and \fIplatform\fP fields to
the \fIencapinfo\fP file.

When adding the \fIcontact\fP field, \fBmkencap\fP will first check the
environment variable \fIENCAP_CONTACT\fP.  If unset, it will use the
username of the invoking user and the hostname of the host it was run on.
.TP
.B -a "encapinfo_directive ..."
Adds the specified directive to the \fIencapinfo\fP file.  Syntax checking
is done to ensure that the line is parsable.
.SH ARCHIVE CREATION OPTIONS
This option is only meaningful when creating an archive file (see
\fI-c\fP option above):
.TP
.B -o outfile
Specify the output filename when creating an archive.  If the filename ends
in \fI.tgz\fP or \fI.gz\fP, it is compressed using \fBgzip\fP(1).  If the
filename ends in \fI.Z\fP, it is compressed using \fBcompress\fP(1).  If
the filename ends in \fI.bz2\fP, it is compressed using \fBbzip2\fP(1).

For Encap 2.0 packages, the default is \fIpkgspec.tar.gz\fP.

For Encap 2.1 packages, the default is
\fIpkgspec-encap-platform.tar.gz\fP.  The \fIplatform\fP string will be
read from the \fIencapinfo\fP file.
.SH EXAMPLES
To create an \fIencapinfo\fP file for the package "pkg-2.1" with the
directives "linkname bin/foo quux" and "linkname man/man1/foo.1 quux.1":

.RS
mkencap -ea "linkname bin/foo quux" \\
.br
        -a "linkname man/man1/foo.1 quux.1" pkg-2.1
.RE

To create an \fIencapinfo\fP file for the package "pkg-3.0" containing
the directives "exclude bin/burfle" and "linkdir lib/pkg", and create
an archive of the package in your home directory:

.RS
mkencap -a "exclude bin/burfle" -a "linkname lib/pkg" \\
.br
        -o ~/pkg-3.0-encap-share.tgz pkg-3.0
.RE
.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.B ENCAP_SOURCE
.br
.B ENCAP_TARGET
.br
.B ENCAP_CONTACT
.br
.B MKENCAP_DOWNLOAD_DIR
.br
.B MKENCAP_SRC_TREE
.br
.B MKENCAP_BUILD_TREE
.br
.B MKENCAP_M4_COMMAND
.SH FILES
.I /usr/local/encap/pkgname/encapinfo
.br
.I /usr/local/etc/mkencap_environment
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR epkg (1),
.BR encap_profile (5)
.br
The Encap Archive (\fIhttp://www.encap.org/\fP)
.SH AUTHOR
Mark D. Roth <roth@feep.net>
